#summary Installation tutorial for vlc-shares 0.5 for Linux
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Introduction =

This short tutorial give an example on how to install and do basic configuration for vlc-shares 0.5 on Linux

= Ubuntu 10.10 =

== Notes ==
In this tutorial will be used as placeholder the following strings:
  # IP_ADDRESS: is the lan ip address of the server where you are installing vlc-shares

This tutorial should works for Ubuntu 10.04 also. But there are some advices:
  # VLC version in ubuntu 10.04 is old. It's better to install newer version.

== Details ==

  # Open a console window
  # Install the required packages
{{{
sudo apt-get install apache2 libapache2-mod-php5 php5 zend-framework zend-framework-bin vlc php5-sqlite php5-cli vlc
}}}
  # *`[optional]`* Install FFMPEG package for FFMpeg helper:
{{{
sudo apt-get install ffmpeg
}}}
  # *`[optional]`* Install extra codec for VLC:
{{{
sudo apt-get install libavcodec-extra-52 libavcodec-unstripped-52
}}}
  # *`[optional]`* Install MediaInfo package for MediaInfo helper. You can download it from the official site: [http://sourceforge.net/projects/mediainfo/files/binary/mediainfo-gui/0.7.35/mediainfo-gui_0.7.35-1_i386.Debian_5.deb/download]
  # Enable apache's mod_rewrite:
{{{
sudo a2enmod rewrite
}}}
  # Open Zend Framework config file:
{{{
sudo gedit /etc/php5/apache2/conf.d/zend-framework.ini
}}}
  # Remove the _;_ from the begin of the second file (if it is there). The file should like below:
{{{
[Zend]
include_path=${include_path} ":/usr/share/php/libzend-framework-php"
}}}
  # Save changes and exit
  # Open Apache default site config:
{{{
sudo gedit /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default
}}}
  # Search for lines below:
{{{
<Directory /var/www/>
	Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
	AllowOverride None
	Order allow,deny
	allow from all
</Directory>
}}}
and change it to:
{{{
<Directory /var/www/>
	Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
	AllowOverride All
	Order allow,deny
	allow from all
</Directory>
}}}
  # Unpack _vlc-shares 0.5_ package inside the _/var/www/_ directory.
  # Change permissions and owner for vlc-shares directory:
{{{
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/www/vlc-shares
sudo chmod a+rwx -R /var/www/vlc-shares/data
}}}
  # Almost done. It's time to restart apache:
{{{
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
}}}
  # Open your browser (Google Chrome or Firefox are supported) at [http://localhost/vlc-shares/public]. You should be redirected to the vlc-shares installer.
  # Select your language
  # Save changes

= You may find interesting... =

  * WiimcConfiguration: configure you WiiMC online media tab for VLCShares 
  * AndroidDeviceConfiguration: configure VLCShares and Android Phones

= Fedora =

== Notes ==
Unfortunatly there is no tutorial for vlc-shares installation in Fedora, yet. But in vlc-shares's main thread in Wiimc forum you can find interesting tips for SELinux and vlc-shares configuration (in italian):

[http://www.wiimc.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=562&start=90#p3514]
